An Exploration into Music Venues with Data Driven Results
Introduction: 
The A-Team is sick of 2020!  The basis of the project was formulated discussing more lighthearted topics that reminded us of the ‘good-ol’ (pre-Covid) days.’  As a group, everyone was interested in the music, so decided to base the project around music venues.  Three initial research questions were posed:  
1.	Is there a correlation to a music venue’s rating and its offering of food and alcohol?  
2.	Do music venues experience seasonal fluctuations in popularity based on indoor and outdoor setting?
3.	Is there a correlation between the price of the offered servings and rating of venue?   
	Research was focused on local Colorado music venues divided into indoor and outdoor venues.  Further, the team looked at how seasonality affects a venue’s popularity.  The time periods of analysis were between January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2019.  2020 was excluded due to the lack of data from entertainment establishments.  Additionally, each year was subdivided into seasons: Winter, Spring, Summer, and Fall.  Further research was conducted as it relates to a venue’s popularity and price level.  Finally, data was collected that illustrates an establishment’s unique attributes as it relates to a music venue.   
Do music venues experience seasonal fluctuations in popularity based on indoor and outdoor setting?
Indoor Venues
	The indoor music venue analysis was comprised of the Fillmore Auditorium and the Ogden Theater.  It was determined that there is not a large variance in the average rating a venue receives and the season.  This trend was similar in both the 2018 and 2019 review data.  Analysis of the total number of reviews both venues receive by season revealed further findings.  In Summer 2018 and Summer 2019, both venues received a significantly lower amount of ratings during that season.  This shows that there may be some correlation between the number of reviews a venue receives and the season.  
Outdoor Venues
For the analysis of the reviews I completed between the 2 outdoor venues, Fiddler’s Green Amphitheatre and The Mishawaka, what I found was that there is a strong seasonal component to the number of reviews completed for each venue. Both venues received significantly more reviews during the spring and summer than they did during the fall and winter. I also found that the average of all ratings for both venues was consistent regardless of the season in which the reviewer rated the venue. Lastly, I found that The Mishawaka received consistently higher ratings both seasonally and overall than Fiddler’s Green which could because The Mishawaka also has a restaurant option, The Mish, whereas Fiddler’s Green is primarily a venue for concerts.  

Is there a correlation between the price of the offered servings and rating of venue? 
 
I initially went into this project thinking that price level of the venue would have some sort of correlation with a venue’s rating, whether that be “The cheaper the venue the better the rating” due to the money saving factor or “The more expensive the venue, the better the rating” due to the perceived higher quality. However, there was zero correlation (maybe because both could be true simultaneously?). As we can visually see from the scatter plot above, a venue with a 4.5 rating could have anywhere from no Price Level (no price level info in the Yelp API) to anywhere on the range of prices from cheap (“$”) to expensive (“$$$$”). The Correlation Coefficient for this was <rvalue=-0.3812416051679814> proving that what we see visually (no correlation) is accurate. 
Since there was no correlation, I decided to take this a little further and see if there was any correlation between a venue’s number of reviews and its closeness to Denver. I assumed that the closer to Denver a venue was, the more reviews it would have, as Denver is well populated, and the venues would probably have more local visitors than not. However, once again, there was no correlation for these two variables. A venue close to Denver could have very few or many reviews, just as a venue further from Denver had that same wide ranges of review numbers. 
 
Is there a correlation to a music venue’s rating and its offering of food and alcohol?
While looking into music venues food and alcohol sales, some difficulties came about in obtaining data due to a combination of permission, time, and funding constraints. The analysis then had to be more directed towards how venues were categorized (bar, restaurant, purely music, etc.). As we look at the number of reviews per venue, we see that places such as Appaloosa Grill, Postino LoHi, and Ophelia’s Electric Soapbox have a high quantity of reviews. These places act more as high-quality restaurants that offer alcoholic beverages and live music. However, bars and music venues are the most frequently used category type. There is then a smaller number of subcategories such as clubs, lounges, cocktail bars, wine bars, American restaurants, gastropubs, and pizza places. Gathering the frequency of these category types and the sum of their ratings, we can calculate the mean rating per category type. This bar chart appears to follow a normal distribution. Still it is hard to draw a definitive conclusion from this data as some of the highest/lowest mean ratings have few reviews (or even just one).
Methods, Misgivings and Further Research:
The A-Team chose the Google Places API and Yelp API.  Additionally, we utilized a specialized web scrapper platform called OutScraper to find our Google Review information.  Initially, Songkick API was selected to gather data on music venues.  However, Songkick was rejected as a dataset, because of the time required to obtain an API key.  Relatedly, research questions were modified from the original proposal to fit with data that could be obtained from Google Places and Yelp.  For future research, utilizing a concert API, such as SongKick or Ticketmaster, may provide additional information into genre or artist related questions.  
Conclusion: 
	The research concluded that season does have some influence on the number of reviews a venue receives.  However, the average rating score stays consistent throughout the year.   Research further yielded that higher priced venues have no correlation on a venues perceived quality.  Additionally, the proximity of a venue’s location to a major city, such as Denver, has no impact on the number of reviews a venue may receive.  
